---
title: "2020 Fall Update"
date: 2020-09-21T23:38:39-07:00
draft: true
metaAlignment: center
categories: []
tags: []
keywords: ['update']
#thumbnailImage: //example.com/image.jpg
---

My fall 2020 update

<!--more-->

(Putting aside the crazy year that 2020 has been) - So I started this blog in the beginning of 2019 with the goal of documenting my journey into Data Science and AI. So how did I do?

## Rest of 2019

Well, I failed the documenting part with the 1 exception being I had put together but never posted a March 2019 update. I'm posting it now for history's sake.

In terms of learning, I did continue to learn as my March 2019 update shows. But on May 2019, I changed jobs and had to switch up my learning to focus on new technologies (DevOps - Jenkins, Development - APIs, AWS - IoT, API Gateway, Serverless Framework, etc).

So I got sidetracked from my original learning goals. But I learnt a lot through the rest of the year - I got exposed to Docker and Microservices architecture. One of my proudest moments was re-writing a data ingestion system which was set of AWS Lambda functions strung together into a Docker based Microservice over a few days. I saw how empowering and awesome docker was. It also solved so many pain points we had - our inability to run our data ingestions systems locally for debugging and development purposes, having to struggle to replicate them across different developer computers.

There were plenty more direct and indirect learnings:

- Writing AWS infrastructure code using the SDK and TypeScript
- React & JavaScript
- AWS's IoT capabilities
- All the good and bad that comes with web development and deployment
- CORS is just so much fun!
- Fighting with NPM dependency hell
- Learning to use and love VS Code
- Setting up dotfiles so I could re-create my computer/development environment faster

On the non-technical side, our engineering leader actually brought in a Scrum teacher to educate the team as a whole over a few days so everyone could be on the same page. Having only had ancillary exposure to Scrum and Agile, it was exciting to learn about them and be part of a team that practiced them.

## 2020 & new beginnings

My learning continued and took new direction with a new job. Now I am a Python Software Engineer which was awesome. I have had the opportunity to dive deeper into the Python ecosystem, learning about Airflow and all its headaches in production, building and managing data pipelines, using docker-compose to run a set of services locally (web services, airflow, ...etc). In addition, I am learning about AWS CDK with TypeScript which is pretty neat.

I joined a newly formed Platform team whose mandate included:

- DevOps: release management & automation, cloud infrastructure management
- Data Engineering: building data pipelines to power our Business Intelligence
- Business Intelliegence: building and periodically managing a Self Serve system to allow our analysts to explore our data and build reports/dashboards

It is exciting to see the full end to end picture of where we get our data to how it is used by our analysts.

## New Direction or Returning to Old Ones

Earlier on when I started my learning journey I wasn't sure where I wanted to end up. Would I become a Data Scientist focused only on building models? Or would I be a Data Engineer building data pipelines? Did I enjoy analyzing data all day? Lots of great options but I wasn't sure if I could see myself just doing one of these roles.

Reflecting back on the past year and a half, I realize I really enjoy the end to end aspect of it - marrying the infrastructure with the models/web apps. I really like my current job as I get to both help build out the infrastructure that powers it all while I can chat with our Analysts regarding how we can clean up the data and build exploratory tools. I go back to the projects I worked on with my friend, Andy on [Data Science Challenges] - building small practical end to end projects that challenge us to stretch our skills and capabilities.

Hence the section heading - its a focus on a new direction but really a return to an old path I had started back in 2018.

[//]: # (Reference Links)

[Data Science Challenges]: https://github.com/johannesgiorgis/ds_challenges